# Kansas Department of Revenue - Appointment Information

**Source URL:** https://www.ksrevenue.gov/DOVAppointmentInfo/
**Domain:** www.ksrevenue.gov
**Scraped:** 2025-07-02T09:15:45.451140

---

Driver's License Information It is encouraged that Kansas driver’s licenses be renewed using iKan, the official online and mobile application for driver’s license renewals. Kansas drivers 21-64 years of age may renew their credential by visiting iKan.ks.gov or by downloading the iKan app from your Apple App or Google Play store. By statute, some restrictions apply. Customers with appointments receive priority. See the below chart for information related to making an appointment. Office Appointment Method Andover Derby KCK Lawrence Manhattan Mission Olathe Overland Park Topeka Wichita Wichita West Schedule Here Atchison Baxter Springs Chanute Colby Concordia Dodge City Emporia Fort Scott Garden City Great Bend Harper County for State Examiner Service Hays Hutchinson Independence Iola Junction City Kingman County for State Examiner Service Kiowa County for State Examiner Service Leavenworth Liberal McPherson Morris County for State Examiner Service Ottawa Parsons Phillipsburg Pittsburg Pratt Russell County for State Examiner Service Salina Seneca Winfield Schedule Here CDL Skills Exam Schedule Here DL Mobile Units The driver’s license mobile units are set up at different locations throughout the year to assist Kansas residents in all areas of the state. Residents who have a large need for driver’s license services in their area, those who would like the mobile units at their location for a limited time, or those who would like the mobile units to attend an event they are having are encouraged to reach out to us at KDOR_DLMobile@ks.gov. Schedule Here Title & Registration Information Vehicle registration renewals MUST be completed in their regularly scheduled month. RENEW WITH IKAN Questions about your vehicle registration should be directed to your local county treasurer's office. *All law enforcement agencies or officers shall use their discretion in deciding whether to enforce laws related to expired drivers’ licenses and vehicle registration and should consider the State of Disaster Emergency when reviewing credentials issued by the State of Kansas, as the Division of Vehicles will not indicate in its system that such drivers’ credentials are or will be expired while the State of Disaster Emergency remains in effect. Have questions? CONTACT US
