# Kansas Department of Revenue Division of Vehicles Home Page

**Source URL:** https://www.ksrevenue.gov/dovindex.html
**Domain:** www.ksrevenue.gov
**Scraped:** 2025-07-02T09:15:40.984467

---

KDOR does not send unsolicited text messages about unpaid tolls. If you receive a suspicious text about unpaid tolls, do not click links. Learn what to do. DIVISION OF VEHICLES EXPRESS RENEW YOUR VEHICLE OR LICENSE TRUCKING KS PRINT REGISTRATION RENEWALS DRIVER LICENSE STATUS CHECK e-LIEN FORMS VEHICLE PROPERTY TAX LOOKUP TAKE WRITTEN DRIVER'S EXAM DRIVER'S ED INSTRUCTOR PORTAL Find your local driver's license office Every county in Kansas provides driver's license and identification card services. Please note, some offices have limited services. Please click below for more information and to find your local office. FIND MY NEAREST OFFICE Kansas Plate Replacement Information The replacement of standard embossed plates will begin in January 2024. Learn More Personalized Plate Lookup Find out if the combination you want on your personalized plate is available by searching our database. Search Database Now iKan - Powered by PayIt With iKan, you can quickly and easily renew vehicle registrations, renew driver's licenses, obtain vital records, and more CONTINUE TO PayIt LOGIN REAL ID Anyone boarding an airplane or entering a federal facility using state issued ID after May 7, 2025, will need a Real ID. LEARN MORE Teen Driving Information Learn more about the varying requirements and get additional information on the Teen Driving page. LEARN MORE about teen driving KnowTo Drive Kansas Department of Revenue's Division of Vehicles launched KnowTo Drive Online, a web-based version of its driver's testing exam, powered by Intellectual Technology, Inc. (ITI). The introduction of this testing service adds to the Department's expanding online services it provides. With KnowTo Drive Online, Kansans have the opportunity to take their written test from the comfort of their home. Visit KnowTo Drive Portal Commercial Drivers You must have a Commercial Driver’s License (CDL) to operate any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight of 26,001 pounds or more or a combination vehicle with a gross combination weight rating of 26,001 or more pounds. Get information on requirements, testing offices, self-certification, reciprocity agreements and more by clicking on the button below! Commercial Driver Information National Motor Vehicle Title Information System (NMVTIS) NMVTIS is designed to protect consumers from fraud and unsafe vehicles and to keep stolen vehicles from being resold. NMVTIS is also a tool that assists states and law enforcement in deterring and preventing title fraud and other crimes. Consumers can use NMVTIS to access important vehicle history information. Click on the link below, click the Resources for States tab and scroll down to view the NMVTIS Vehicle History for Consumers brochure and video. NMVTIS Information
