## Rural Road Driving
Driving on empty rural highways can be just as dangerous as driving in heavy city traffic. It is easy to relax your attention and suddenly come upon something dangerous. Stay alert, watch for warning signs and slow down. Some road conditions and driving hazards are unique to rural roads when compared to a paved interstate or city street. Rural roads consist of paved, gravel and dirt roads. It is important to understand the different types and the hazards that are common on rural roads:
· Gravel or Dirt - Vehicles do not have as much traction on gravel or dirt roads as they do on concrete or asphalt roads. When driving on gravel or dirt, you must reduce your speed and increase your following distance, since it will take much longer to stop due to loss of traction. Skidding can occur when traction is lost. Gravel or dirt roads can become rough and rippled from where a series of potholes has formed and can affect steering and vehicle control.
· Dust - During dry periods of the year, gravel roads can become extremely dusty. Vision can be reduced. It is recommended that you use low beam headlights to make your vehicle more visible to others, slow down and increase your following distance.
· Narrow bridges and roads - Gravel or dirt roads can be narrow and have little to no shoulder, which can be hazardous. Ditches can be close to the road, very steep and dangerous. You should look for narrow bridge signs and be prepared to stop for oncoming traffic. These roadways may have sharp dips or unexpected turns; therefore, you should slow down and increase your following distance.
· Open Bridge Gratings or Steel Bridges - Reduce speed as traction for braking and steering is reduced. Due to the reduced traction, keep a firm grip on the steering wheel and increase your following distance.
· Vision limitations - Blind corners created by wooded areas, corn fields or other tall crops can create vision limitations.
· Steep hills and curves - Hills and curves on rural roads are often steeper and sharper than on highways. Before reaching the crest of a hill or before entering a curve, slow down, move to the right side of the road and watch for oncoming vehicles.
· Highway-railroad grade crossings - Many highway-railroad grade crossings on rural roads are marked only with a warning sign and a white X-shaped railroad crossing sign and typically do not have lights or crossing gates; therefore, you should always slow down, look both ways and be prepared to stop for a train before crossing the tracks.
· Uncontrolled intersections - Some intersections on rural roads are not controlled by yield or stop signs. These intersections can be very dangerous if you do not approach them with caution. When approaching an uncontrolled rural intersection slow down and be prepared to stop for crossing or oncoming traffic.