## Driver License Renewal
Permits: A Kansas Non-Commercial C Instructional Permit is valid for one year from the issue of the permit. Non-Commercia A and B Permits are valid for six months. All Instructional Permits are renewed by retaking and passing the written examination. Any license, permit, or ID card issued to a temporary resident will expire at the same time as their authorization to be lawfully present in the United States.
Driver's Licenses: At least 30 days prior to the expiration of your license, the Division of Vehicles will send a notice of expiration or renewal application. This will either be sent to the last mailing address on file or if you opted for electronic notifications, will be sent to the email address provided. You may sign up or edit your email address for electronic notifications at any time by emailing KDOR_DL@KS.GOV.
An Examiner will screen your eyesight when you come in for renewal. Eyesight of at least 20/40 in one eye is required, with or without correction. An eye examination by a licensed optometrist or ophthalmologist of your choice will be accepted in lieu of the eye examination administered by the examiner, providing such examination was made not more than 90 days prior to the date of your renewal application. Based on the information provided on the vision examination form additional testing may be required. Although a written examination is not required for every renewal, a Driver's License Examiner may require any applicant to pass a written or driving skills test if they suspect the applicant is unable to "exercise ordinary and reasonable control" of a vehicle. (K.S.A. 8-235d) An additional $1.00 will be charged as a penalty to anyone whose license has expired. If the driver license has been expired for more than 1-year full testing will be required. Full testing includes the vision, written, and driving examinations.
Regardless of where you live in Kansas, your Kansas license may be renewed at any driver's license office. CDL holders and Registered Offenders must renew at a full-service driver's license station. If you are a Concealed Carry License holder with a separate card your driver's license renewal can be done at any station provided you are not making any changes to your record, (name, address or license number).
Loss of Driving Privileges