## Accelerating
If the vehicle has automatic transmission, release the parking brake, and press the brake pedal, move gear selector lever to "D" (drive). If the vehicle has a manual transmission, keep the clutch pedal to the floor, move the gearshift lever from neutral to first, press the brake pedal and release the parking brake. Check forward for safe path and check for traffic to the sides and behind. Signal and if safe, move foot to accelerator and press gently; if applicable, release the clutch slowly. If you release the clutch suddenly, the vehicle will jerk forward, and the engine may stall. Accelerate gradually and smoothly with the top of your foot on the pedal and the heel of your foot on the floor; if applicable, lightly press down on the accelerator pedal and let the clutch up gradually. Trying to accelerate too fast can cause the drive wheels to spin, particularly on slippery surfaces, and could cause the vehicle to slide. It can also help save fuel.
Increase speed gradually when traction is poor, as in rain, snow, or sandy/gravel areas of the roadway. If you use too much power, the drive wheels may spin, and you could lose control. If the drive wheels begin to spin, take your foot off the accelerator.
Stopping
If the vehicle has automatic transmission, check mirrors for traffic. If moving to the curb, check over your shoulder and signal your intentions. If stopping at a stop sign or traffic signal, stop behind sign, stop line or crosswalk, as appropriate. Release the accelerator to allow the vehicle to slow. Move your foot to the brake pedal and press with steady pressure for a smooth stop. If applicable, press clutch pedal down and shift into first gear when stopped.
Steering
The steering wheel is always turned in the direction you want the vehicle to move, whether moving forward or in reverse.