## Trains- See Section 6: Rules of the Road
路 Slow Moving Vehicles - Be alert for slow moving vehicles, especially in rural areas. A fluorescent or reflective orange and red triangle displayed on the rear of vehicles drawn by animals, farm equipment or construction equipment means the vehicle is traveling less than 25 mph. Use caution when approaching a slow-moving vehicle and be sure it is safe before you pass.
路 Farm machinery - Watch for tractors, combines and other farm equipment moving across the road and traveling on state highways in rural areas. Farm machinery can be very large and wide enough to take up more than one traffic lane. Farm machinery usually does not have turn signals, and to make a right turn, operators of farm machinery may pull wide to the left and then turn to the right. In most cases, these vehicles will be traveling at less than 25 mph. Pass with caution and remember the operator of the farm machinery cannot hear approaching vehicles.
路 Animal drawn vehicles - In some rural areas, you may be sharing the road with animal drawn vehicles. They have the same rights to use the road as a motor vehicle and must follow the same rules of the road. They are subject to heavy damage and injury to the occupants if hit by a vehicle. Normal speeds for animal drawn vehicles range between 5 and 8 miles per hour. They may be even slower when pulling large farm equipment or when crossing intersections. Another hazard to consider is restricted vision from the driver of the animal drawn vehicle. When pulling large loads of hay or other equipment, drivers may not be able to see vehicles behind them; therefore, you need to be extra cautious when passing animal drawn vehicles. Pass with caution and do not use your horn or "rev" the engine because this may scare the horse and cause a crash. To avoid other possible collisions, you should anticipate left turns made by animal drawn vehicles into fields and driveways. Warning signs will be posted in areas where you are likely to find animal drawn vehicles, so be alert.
路 Horseback riders - Horseback riders are subject to and protected by the rules of the road. They must ride single file near the right curb or road edge, or on a usable right shoulder, lane or path. Use caution when approaching a horse being ridden or led along a road. Areas where horseback riding is common will usually be marked with an advisory sign. You must drive at a reasonable speed and at a reasonable distance away from the horse. Do not sound your horn or "rev" your engine loudly when approaching or passing a horse. It could scare the horse and cause a crash.