## Seeing Well Ahead in the Travel Path You can calculate how far ahead to search by:
1. Finding a stationary object like a sign or telephone pole near the road as far ahead as you can see.
2. Start counting: one-thousand-one, one-thousand-two, one-thousand-three, etc., until you reach the object.
3. The number of seconds you have counted is the number of seconds ahead that you were looking.
To identify potential problems in the travel path you need a visual lead. A visual lead is an area 20 to 30 seconds ahead from the front of the vehicle. Having a good visual lead and using good searching skills helps you see changes in your travel path and identify alternative paths of travel. If something is in your vehicle's travel path that requires a speed reduction, it is critical to see the problem with time to stop or steer around it.
It takes much longer and further to stop than many drivers realize. Even if your vehicle has good tires, brakes, and the pavement is dry:
· At 60 mph, it can take about 4 to 5 seconds or 359 feet to react to a problem and bring the vehicle to a stop.
· At 30 mph, it can take about 2 to 3 seconds or 123 feet to react to a problem and bring the vehicle to a stop.
At 60 mph if you cannot see at least 400 feet ahead, you are driving too fast for your visibility. At 30 mph if you cannot see at least 150 feet ahead, you may not be driving safely. Without an adequate visual lead, by the time you see an object in your travel path, it may be too late to stop without hitting the object.
Look to the sides - At any time other vehicles or pedestrians may cross or enter your travel path. You should search to make sure other roadway users will not cross your travel path. This is especially true at intersections and highway-railroad grade crossings.
Intersections - Intersections are any place where traffic flow merges or crosses. Intersections may include cross streets, side streets, driveways, shopping center lanes or parking lot entrances. When approaching an intersection check for oncoming and cross traffic, other roadway users, traffic control devices, areas of limited visibility and the condition of the roadway. Before entering an intersection, look to the front, left and right for approaching vehicles and/or crossing pedestrians. If stopped, look left, right and left again before entering the intersection. Crossing an Intersection - Do not rely on traffic signals or signs to tell you that no one will be crossing in front of you. Some drivers may not obey traffic signals or signs or may not see them. At
intersections, look to the front, left and right, even if other traffic has a red light or a stop sign. This searching technique is especially important just after the light has turned green. People on the cross street are most likely to hurry through the intersection before the light changes to red. Make sure the travel path is clear all the way through the intersection and you can clearly see crossing traffic before entering an intersection so you will not block the intersection if you must stop. If you are stopped and your view of traffic or a cross street is blocked, edge forward slowly until you can see. By moving forward slowly, crossing drivers can see the front of your vehicle before you can see them. This gives them a chance to slow down and warn you if needed.
Whenever there is a lot of activity along the side of the road, there is a good chance that someone will cross or enter the road. Therefore, it is very important to look to the sides when you are near shopping centers and parking lots, construction areas, busy sidewalks, playgrounds, and schoolyards.
Turning Left - When turning left at an intersection, pull into the intersection to be ready to turn left. Before turning left across oncoming traffic, look for a safe gap in the traffic. Prior to turning search to be sure that there are no vehicles or pedestrians in the travel path that could leave your vehicle stranded in the path of oncoming traffic. Before turning, search in the direction of oncoming traffic. Be sure you turn into the appropriate lane.
Turning Right - Before turning right, make sure that there is no traffic approaching from your left and no oncoming traffic turning left into your path. Do not begin turning without searching for pedestrians crossing.
Highway-railroad grade crossings - Approach any highway-railroad grade crossing by slowing down at the round warning sign and looking each direction prior to the tracks to make sure a train or railroad maintenance equipment is not coming.