## Protect Yourself in Collisions
You may not always be able to avoid a collision. Try everything you can to keep from being hit. If nothing works, try to lessen any injuries that could result from the crash. The most important thing you can do is to use your safety belt. In addition to your safety belt, there are other things that could help prevent serious injuries.
. Hit from the Rear - If your vehicle is hit from the rear, your head and body will be thrown backwards. Press yourself against the back of your seat and put your head against the head restraint. Be ready to apply your brakes so that you will not be pushed into another vehicle.
· Hit from the Side - If your vehicle is hit from the side, your body will be thrown towards the side that is hit. Frontal air bags will not help in this situation. Your lap and shoulder belts are needed to help keep you behind the wheel. Get ready to steer or brake to prevent your vehicle from hitting something else.
· Hit from the Front - If your vehicle is about to be hit from the front it is important to try to have a "glancing blow" rather than being struck head on. This means that if a collision is going to happen, you should try to turn the vehicle. At worse, your vehicle will be hit with a glancing blow or you might miss it. If the frontal impact is severe, the air bag will deploy and then deflate, so be ready. You must use your safety belt to keep yourself behind the wheel and to protect yourself if your vehicle has a second crash.