## Winter Driving
Winter is the most difficult driving season. Not only do you have snow and ice to deal with, but there are fewer hours of daylight as well. Before winter weather arrives, make sure your vehicle is in good condition. Make sure your vehicle has good snow tires. Put them on the vehicle before the first snowfall. On front-wheel drive vehicles, it is best to put snow tires or "all-season" tires on all four wheels, not just the front. Studded snow tires are only legal from November 1 through April 1.
During ice or snowstorms, especially when a weather advisory is issued, do not drive unless it is absolutely necessary. If you must drive, first clear the ice and snow from your vehicle, including the headlights and taillights, the windshield wipers and all of the windows. Be sure to use a freeze-resistant cleaning solution for the wipers and that the reservoir is filled adequately.
Drive slowly. Even if your vehicle has good traction in ice and snow, other drivers will be traveling with caution. Do not disrupt the flow of traffic by driving faster than everyone else drives. When sleet, freezing rain or snow starts to fall, remember that bridges, ramps, and overpasses are likely to freeze first. Also, be aware that slippery spots may remain after road crews have cleared the roadways.
An emergency situation on the road can happen at any time. Be prepared with a survival kit that should always remain in the vehicle and replenished after each use. Supplies include:
· A properly inflated spare tire, a shovel, jumper cables, tow and tire chains, a bag of salt or sand and a tool kit.
· Working flashlight and extra batteries, reflective triangles and brightly colored cloth, compass, first aid kit, exterior windshield cleaner, ice scraper, snow brush, matches in a waterproof container, blankets, woolen gloves, socks, and a hat.
· Water and non-perishable foods that give you energy such as unsalted canned nuts, dried fruits, and hard candy.
If you become stranded while traveling in cold weather, stay with your vehicle. Do not leave your vehicle unless you know exactly where you are and how far it is to help. Most deaths under these circumstances occur when people get out of their vehicles, become lost and suffer prolonged exposure to the cold. Stay calm, wait for help to arrive, and use the following tips:
· Turn on your hazard warning lights.
· To attract attention, light two flares and place one at each end of the vehicle a safe distance away. Hang a brightly colored cloth from your driver side window, mirror, or door handle.
· Keep the exhaust pipe clear of snow and debris. Fumes from the exhaust can leak into the vehicle and can cause you to black out or even cause death.
· Run the engine and heater until the vehicle is reasonably warm and then turn it off. Repeat this process as long as fuel is available. Running the engine for approximately 10 minutes each hour, in order to charge the battery and warm the interior, is recommended.
· Even in extremely cold temperatures, leave at least one window partially open to let fresh air in. Occupants of an idling vehicle can suffer carbon monoxide poisoning if ventilation is not adequate and heavy snow and ice can seal a vehicle shut.
· At least one person in the vehicle should always remain awake.
· To protect yourself from frostbite and hypothermia use woolen items and blankets to keep warm.
Driving in Very Hot Weather
When driving in very hot weather pay special attention to the following items:
· Tires - Check the tire mounting and air pressure. Inspect the tires every two hours or every 100 miles when driving in hot weather. Air pressure increases with temperature. Do not let air out or the pressure will be too low when the tires cool off.
· Engine oil - The engine oil helps keep the engine cool. Make sure there is enough oil. If you have an oil temperature gauge, make sure the temperature is within the proper range while you are driving.
· Engine coolant - Before driving, make sure the engine cooling system has enough water and antifreeze. When driving, check the water temperature or coolant temperature gauge from time to time. Make sure that it remains in the normal range. If the gauge goes above the highest safe temperature, there may be something wrong that could lead to engine failure and possibly fire. Stop driving as soon as safely possible to find out what is wrong.
· Watch for bleeding tar - Tar in the road pavement frequently rises to the surface in very hot weather. Spots where tar "bleeds" to the surface can be very slippery, so use caution when you see it.
· Go slow enough to prevent overheating - High speeds create more heat for tires and the engine. In desert conditions, the heat may build up to the point where it is dangerous. The heat will increase chances of tire failure or even fire and engine failure.