## Air Bags
Air bags are supplemental restraints and are designed to work best in combination with safety belts. In a crash they supplement the safety belt by reducing the chance that your head and upper body will strike some part of the vehicle's interior. They also help reduce the risk of serious injury by distributing crash forces more evenly across your body. Since air bags deploy only once and deflate quickly after impact, they will not be helpful during a secondary collision. Safety belts help to position your body properly to maximize the air bag's benefits and help restrain you during the initial and any following collisions. So, it is extremely important that safety belts always be worn, even in air bag-equipped vehicles.
Front air bags are designed to deploy in frontal and near-frontal collisions. They are not designed to deploy in side impact, rear impact, or rollover crashes. In order to protect yourself in these collisions your vehicle must be equipped with side impact air bags.
Air bags must inflate very rapidly to be effective and therefore come out of the steering wheel or instrument panel with great force. Because of this initial force contact with a deploying air bag may cause injury. These injuries, when they occur, are typically minor abrasions or burns. More serious injuries are rare; however, serious or even fatal injuries can occur when someone is very close to, or in direct contact with an air bag when the air bag deploys. There are ways to help prevent injury due to deployment of an air bag:
· In most vehicles, you should adjust your seat so at least 10 inches is between the center of your chest and the center of the steering wheel. Refer to your vehicle owner's manual for proper seat adjustment with air bags.
· To direct the air bag at your chest instead of your face, raise your seat or use a cushion and/or adjust the steering wheel downward.
· You should place your hands on the outside of the steering wheel, never across the steering wheel where the air bag deploys.
· Never secure a child in the right front passenger side, especially if your vehicle has an air bag. If the air bag deploys it could hurt the child. Children age 12 and under should sit in the rear seat of the vehicle to avoid injury from an air bag in the event of a crash.
· Most vehicles without rear seats or with small rear seats, such as pickup trucks or sports cars have a passenger air bag on-off switch as standard equipment. The purpose of the switch in the off position is to disable the front passenger air bag to transport a child age 12 or under in the right front passenger seat.
· Read your vehicle owner's manual for specific information about the air bags in your vehicle.