## Effects of Alcohol and other Impairing Drugs Alcohol and other drugs reduce the important skills you need to drive safely.
· Judgment - Judgment is a brain-centered activity that stores all of your experiences and knowledge so it can be used quickly when you face a new problem. Alcohol and other impairing drugs affect those areas of your brain that control judgment. This is one reason why drinking alcohol and taking certain types of drugs is so dangerous.
· Vision - The most important sense you use in driving is vision. Alcohol and certain types of drugs can blur your vision, slow your ability can blur your vision, slow your ability to focus and cause double vision. Your vision helps you to determine how far away an object is and the object's relationship to your path of travel. Alcohol and other impairing drugs reduce the ability to judge distance, speed and the movement of other vehicles. With increasing impairment, you could drift across the centerline, wander from lane to lane, or even run off the roadway. Vision is impacted at .02 BAC for all drivers.
· Color Distinction - A lot of the information you receive on the roadway is from different colors such as traffic signs, signals and roadway markings. Alcohol and other impairing drugs reduce your ability to distinguish colors, which can be very dangerous.
. Reaction Time - Alcohol and other impairing drugs slow your ability to process information and respond to critical driving tasks. Alcohol and impairing drugs make you drowsy and less alert to what's around you.