## List G
If you have been issued an out of state credential, you must present one of the following documents from the state of issuance.
Most recently issued out of state credential (temporary or photo copies cannot be accepted)
Motor Vehicle Record or Report dated within the last 30 days Clearance Letter dated within the last 30 days
![GET REAL REAL ID SAFE & CONVENIENT TRAVEL ID Real ID is a federally approved safety measure for boarding domestic flights and for civilians entering military bases and some federal buildings. Beginning May3, 2023, anyone wanting to board domestic flights or civilians wanting to enter a military base and some federal buildings will be required to present only Real ID. OR If opting out of Real ID, additional information to a driver's license or ID card MUST be provided. ARRIVAL IN THE MAIL Allow up to 5 weeks for a hard copy of your credential to arrive in the mail. FEDERAL 10 KANSAS - KANSAS SAUE .A. K12-34-5478 -4 4611939 CAMP SANVLE CANON EL GABETH, SE ---- 01/11/66 Both card versions are acceptable for driving, voting, age-restricted purchases, and accessing federal and social benefit services. AD ASTRA PER ASPERA Kansas Department of Revenue https://www.ksrevenue.gov/REALID]()
![DOCUMENTS NEEDED * DOCUMENTS PRESENTED MUST BE ORIGINAL AND NOT LAMINATED. A laminated Social Security Card is the ONLY exception. One (1) proof of Lawful Presence State Issued Birth Certificate Unexpired Passport Unexpired Permanent Resident Card Unexpired Employment Authorization Card Naturalization Certificate Consular Report of Birth Abroad (FS-240) One (1) proof of Social Security * A full Social Security Number MUST be visible. Social Security Card Current W-2 or 1099 or 1040 Current pay stub Two (2) proofs of Kansas residency Rent or lease agreement Renewal Postcard Vehicle Registration Utility Bill Financial institution documents (bank statement, deed, or mortgage) NOTE: If your name has changed from what is presented for proof of lawful presence (due to adoption, marriage, divorce, court ordered name change), or is not the same on all of your documents, you must provide proof of the name change. If this applies to you, please provide one (1) of the following: Certified State Issued Marriage Certificate OR Court Ordered Divorce Decree OR Legal adoption paperwork OR Any court ordered or legal name change documents Certified vital records can be ordered at ikan.ks.gov]()