## Adjusting Seat and Mirrors
You should always adjust your seat and mirrors before you start to drive. It is important to do this so you can see clearly and have full control of the vehicle's foot pedals and steering wheel with appropriate space for airbag deployment.
路 Your foot should be able to pivot smoothly from brake to accelerator while the heel is kept on the floor. If so equipped, the steering wheel/column may also be adjusted. The top of the steering wheel should be no higher than the top of your shoulders and below the chin level. There should be 10 inches between your body and the bottom of the steering wheel. Do not move the seat so far forward that you cannot easily steer and do not recline the seat so far back that you cannot reach the steering wheel or use your mirrors effectively. If necessary, use a seat cushion and/or pedal extensions to increase your view.
路 Head restraints are designed to prevent whiplash if you are hit from behind. Whiplash is neck pain that may occur when you are in a crash where force is applied to your neck that results in movement beyond the neck's normal range of motion. To help prevent whiplash the head restraints should be adjusted so the head restraint contacts the back of your head and not below the level of your ears.
路 Adjust your rearview mirror so that it frames the rear window. You should be able to see traffic flow to the rear of the vehicle with the rearview mirror.
路 If you have a day/night mirror, make sure it is set for the time of day you are driving.