· Tires - Before entering the vehicle, tires should be checked for proper inflation, tread depth and condition. To check tire pressure, use the recommended psi (pounds per square inch) located in the vehicle owner's manual or the driver's side door jamb of the vehicle. Use a tire pressure gauge to check your psi. If your psi is above the number listed on your door jamb, let air out until it matches. If below, add air (or have a tire professional help you) until it reaches the proper number. Also make sure that valve caps and stems are not missing, broken, or damaged.
> You may also measure tread depth using the "penny test". Once every month, or before you embark upon a long road trip, check your tires for wear and damage problems. One easy way to check for wear is by using the 'penny test'.
1. Take a penny and hold Abraham Lincoln's body between your thumb and forefinger.
2. Select a point on your tire where the tread appears to be lowest and place Lincoln's head into one of the grooves.
3. If any part of Lincoln's head is covered by the tread, you're driving with the safe amount of tread. If your tread gets below that, your car's ability to grip the road in adverse conditions is greatly reduced.
> It is important to check your tires because low inflation or lack of tread increases the effect of hydroplaning, reduces cornering ability, and increases the chance of blowout from excessive heat buildup due to increased flexing of the tire. Stopping distance is increased from poor contact with road surface. Over inflation increases the chance of tread separation and tire failure. Cuts and bruises may cause tire failure, blowout, and sudden loss of control.
· Headlights - Check that low and high beam headlights are operational and that the lenses are not cracked, broken, or missing. It is important to check your headlights, because they are critical for better visibility, nighttime driving, and inclement weather conditions.
· Taillights and Brake Lights - Check that taillights and brake lights are operational and that the lenses are not cracked, broken, or missing. It is important to check your taillights and brake lights, because they
are critical for better visibility. Brake lights also communicate to other drivers that you are slowing or stopping.
· Turn Signals - Check that all turn signals, both front and back, are operational and that the lenses are not cracked, broken, or missing. It is important to check your turn signals because they are critical to communicate to other drivers when and which way you are turning.
Check your Fluids:
· Oil - Open the hood of your car. Find the oil dipstick, remove it and wipe it down with a rag or paper towel. Put back the dipstick - make sure you push it in as far as it will go. Put out the dipstick again - if the film of oil does not reach the markings, add more oil. Check your driver's manual to see how often you should replace your oil.
. Coolant - Open the hood of your car. Find the coolant tank - this is usually next to the radiator. If the coolant doesn't reach the "minimum" fill line, fill it with a coolant/water solution (the ration for this will be in your car's driver manual). ** Warning: Never open the radiator cap on a hot car! Wait until the car has cooled down first.