## Scanning
To be a safe driver, you must know what is happening around your vehicle. You must look ahead, to the sides and behind the vehicle. Scanning helps you to see problems ahead that may cause you to change speed or roadway position, such as vehicles and people that may be in the roadway or signs warning of problems ahead.
Look ahead -In order to avoid emergency braking or steering, you should look well down the roadway to the end of the travel path. By looking well ahead you can operate a vehicle more safely, save on fuel, help keep traffic moving at a steady pace and allow yourself time to see better around your vehicle and along the side of the road. Looking well down the travel path will also help you to steer with less weaving.
In the city, you should look at least two blocks or two traffic signals ahead. In an urban area, you should look at least three blocks or three traffic signals ahead. On the highway, you should look at least a quarter of a mile ahead.
When looking well ahead look for vehicles coming onto the roadway, into your lane, or turning. Watch for brake lights from slowing vehicles. By seeing these things far enough ahead, you can change your speed or change lanes if necessary, to avoid a problem. If you see a traffic light that has been green for a long time, it may change to red before you get there. Therefore, you should start slowing down and be ready to stop.
By seeing problems ahead early, you can drive more safely, which also helps drivers behind you drive more safely too. Making driving changes well ahead of time gives drivers behind you more time to react. The earlier you act, the less often someone behind you must react quickly to your vehicle.