## Rollovers
Rollovers are much more likely than most other types of crashes to result in serious injury or death. Even though only about one of every forty vehicles involved in a police reported crash has rolled over, one of every three passenger vehicle occupant deaths occur in rollovers. This illustrates the seriousness of rollover crashes.
The majority of rollovers occur during ordinary driving situations. Many rollovers occur when a driver suddenly swerves to avoid an obstacle such as a stopped vehicle in the road or when a driver accidentally veers off the road. When you lose control of your vehicle and it begins to slide sideways, something can "trip" the vehicle and cause it to roll over. This tripping object could be a curb, guardrail, tree stump, or soft, uneven ground on the side of the roadway. If you are speeding or you turn the wheel too sharply, the friction between the tires and the road can cause the vehicle to trip and then roll over.
A multiple-vehicle crash can also initiate a rollover if it causes a driver to lose control or if a vehicle rolls after being struck in the side by another vehicle, but single vehicle crashes are more common. More than 80% of all rollovers involve no other vehicle besides the one that rolls over.
Rollover crashes are more common for sport utility vehicles (SUVs), vans, pickups, and small trucks than for passenger vehicles due to their higher centers of gravity, which makes them top heavy and more likely to tip over. Whenever the height of a vehicle rises, the center of gravity also rises. Additional cargo and passengers can also increase the chances of a rollover.
Thankfully, because most rollover crashes involve only one vehicle, you - the driver - can reduce the likelihood of having a rollover crash simply by making some smart choices:
路 Speed is an important factor that contributes to rollover crashes and one factor that you can control. The faster you drive, the less time you have to react to any emergency that suddenly arises in the road ahead of you, which means you will probably end up steering more sharply and/or braking harder. Simply obeying the posted speed limit and using extra caution in bad weather can reduce your chances of having a rollover crash.
路 Many rollovers occur when drivers overcorrect their steering in response to unexpected situations, such as encountering a stopped vehicle in their lane or accidentally driving off the pavement. Sudden steering maneuvers at high speeds or on soft surfaces can lead to rollovers. If your vehicle leaves the paved road surface, slow down gradually, but do not jerk the steering wheel to get the vehicle back on the pavement.
路 The most effective way to reduce the risk of injury or death in a rollover is to use your safety belt. Without safety belts occupants in vehicles that roll can be thrown from the vehicle, greatly increasing the risk of serious injury or death.
路 Air bags play an important part in reducing injury. Side airbags triggered by rollover sensors can prevent the upper body from being exposed to contacts with the ground or even complete occupant ejection.