## The No-Zone
The No-Zone is the area around large trucks or buses where vehicles disappear from the commercial driver's view into blind spots. These blind spots are on the sides, rear and front of the large vehicle.
· Side No-Zones - Large trucks and buses have big No-Zones on both sides. They are much larger than your vehicle's blind spots. Trucks have a larger blind spot on their right side starting behind the cab and extending up to the length of the truck. If you cannot see the driver's face in the side view mirror, they cannot see you. Avoid driving alongside a large vehicle for any longer than required under any circumstances. If the driver needs to swerve or change lanes, the chances of a collision are greatly increased.
· Front No-Zones - Because of a large vehicle's size and weight, they take longer to stop than cars. A loaded truck with good tires and properly adjusted brakes, under ideal conditions, traveling at 55 mph requires a minimum of 335 feet before coming to a complete stop, or greater than 1 1/2 times the stopping distance of a car. Therefore, it is essential not to enter a roadway in front of a large vehicle or change lanes in front of a large vehicle. When passing a large vehicle, look for the whole front of the vehicle in your rear-view mirror before pulling in front and maintaining speed.
· Rear No-Zones - Unlike cars, large vehicles have huge blind spots directly behind them that extend up to 200 feet. If you are too close, the large vehicle cannot see your car, and you cannot see what is ahead of you. If the large vehicle brakes or stops suddenly, you have no place to go and could run into them. To prevent this, you need to pay close attention when following a large vehicle. Avoid following the vehicle too closely and position your vehicle so the driver can see it in their side mirrors. When traveling up or down steep hills, large vehicles must drive slowly, approximately 35 mph, and therefore use the right lane. Avoid driving in the right lane, if possible, when traveling up or down hills, as well as near truck weigh stations, where large vehicles will be attempting to reenter faster-moving traffic. By avoiding the right lane in these areas, you will reduce the possibility of a crash with a large vehicle.