## Speed Management
## Stopping
Perception distance is how far your vehicle travels, in ideal conditions, from the time your eyes see a hazard until your brain recognizes it. Keep in mind certain mental and physical conditions can affect your perception distance. It can be affected greatly depending on visibility and the hazard itself. The average perception time for an alert driver is 3/4 second to 1 second.
Reaction distance is how far you will continue to travel, in ideal conditions; before you physically hit the brakes, in response to a hazard seen ahead. The average driver has a reaction time of 3/4 second to 1 second. At 50 mph this accounts for 55 feet traveled.
Braking distance is how far your vehicle will travel, in ideal conditions, while you are braking. At 50 mph on dry pavement with good brakes, it can take about 158 feet.
Total stopping distance is the total minimum distance your vehicle has traveled, in ideal conditions, with everything considered, including perception distance, reaction distance and braking distance, until you can bring your vehicle to a complete stop. At 50 mph, your vehicle will travel a minimum of 268 feet.
The faster you drive the greater the impact or striking power of your vehicle. When you double your speed from 20 to 40 mph the impact is 4 times greater. The braking distance is also 4 times longer. Triple the speed from 20 to 60 mph and the impact and braking distance is 9 times greater. At 60 mph, your stopping distance is greater than that of a football field. Increase the speed to 80 mph and the impact and braking distance are 16 times greater than at 20 mph. High speeds greatly increase the severity of crashes and stopping distances. By slowing down, you can reduce braking distance.
You need to stay alert while driving to be able to stop while giving other drivers time to slow down. Stopping suddenly is dangerous and usually means you are not paying attention to the traffic flow or following others too closely. Sudden slowdowns make it harder for drivers behind your vehicle to stop without causing a collision.
Look at least ten seconds ahead of your vehicle to avoid panic stops by seeing events and problems well ahead of time. By slowing down early or changing lanes you may avoid sudden actions. Planning and slowing gradually can also help save fuel.