## Traction Technology
ABS stands for Anti-Lock Braking System. ABS is designed to allow steering and braking at the same time without losing vehicle balance. ABS does not necessarily shorten stopping distances on dry pavement, but generally shortens stopping distances on wet surfaces where traction loss can be a serious problem.
This system is very helpful if you must stop or slow down and steer at the same time. In addition, the system is very helpful when traction is lost to the front or steering tires. The basics for ABS usage are Search (for open space), Stomp (on the brake pedal firmly), Steer (to the open space).
To determine if your vehicle has ABS check your owner's manual. You can also determine if you have ABS by checking your instrument panel. When you start your vehicle the ABS light will illuminate and then dim. If you see an ABS indicator light, then you have ABS. If the light stays lit the ABS is not working correctly.
ESP stands for Electronic Stability Program. The ESP computer continually monitors the traction available. ESP electronically compares where a driver is steering the vehicle and where the vehicle is actually going. When ESP senses traction problems between the two, it selectively applies any one of the vehicle brakes to reduce the possibility of a skid and helps the driver to maintain control and stability of the vehicle. In traction loss, with ESP you should steer the vehicle toward the direction you are looking and avoid abrupt steering. The ESP will electronically adjust the vehicle, reducing the traction loss and allowing you to steer the vehicle toward the travel path.
Space Management
You must always share the road with other roadway users. The more distance between your vehicle and other roadway users, the more time you have to react. This space is a large space cushion designed for your protection. Always maintain a safe space cushion around your vehicle.