## Space to Cross or Enter
When stopped at an intersection and crossing traffic, you need a large enough gap to get your vehicle across the roadway. When going straight after stopping at an intersection, under normal circumstances, a vehicle can get through an intersection within 3 to 5 seconds.
When turning and entering traffic flow to the left or right; you need enough space to first turn into the appropriate lane and then to get up to speed. Under normal circumstances, a vehicle can complete a right turn and pick up speed within 12 to 15 seconds, while it may take 15 to 18 seconds to complete a left turn and get up to speed.
When turning left, make sure there are no vehicles or pedestrians blocking the travel path. You do not want to be caught in the intersection waiting for a path to clear while oncoming vehicles are coming toward your vehicle. Even if you have the green traffic signal light, do not start across the intersection when vehicles are blocking the way. If caught in the intersection when the light changes to red your vehicle will be illegally blocking traffic flow.
Never assume another driver will share space with your vehicle or give your vehicle any additional space. Do not turn into a lane just because an approaching vehicle has a turn signal active. The driver with an active turn signal may plan to turn after they go past your vehicle or may have forgotten to turn the signal off from a prior turn. This is particularly true of large commercial vehicles and motorcycles, as their signals may not self-cancel. Wait until the other driver actually starts to turn and then move forward only when there is a safe gap in traffic. When crossing railroad tracks, make sure you can cross the highway-railroad grade crossing without having to stop on the tracks.