Drivers in a Hurry. Drivers may feel your commercial vehicle is preventing them from getting where they want to go on time. Such drivers may pass you without a safe gap in the oncoming traffic, cutting too close in front of you. Drivers entering the road may pull in front of you in order to avoid being stuck behind you, causing you to brake. Be aware of this and watch for drivers who are in a hurry.
Impaired Drivers. Drivers who are sleepy, have had too much to drink, are on drugs, or who are ill are hazards. Some clues to these drivers are:
Weaving across the road or drifting from one side to another. Leaving the road (dropping right wheels onto the shoulder or bumping across a curb in a turn). Stopping at the wrong time (stopping at a green light or waiting for too long at a stop).
Open window in cold weather.
Speeding up or slowing down suddenly, driving too fast or too slowly. Be alert for drunk drivers and sleepy drivers late at night.
Driver Body Movement as a Clue. Drivers look in the direction they are going to turn. You may sometimes get a clue from a driver's head and body movements that a driver may be going to make a turn, even though the turn signals aren't on. Drivers making over-the-shoulder checks may be going to change lanes. These clues are most easily seen in motorcyclists and bicyclists. Watch other road users and try to tell whether they might do something hazardous.
Conflicts. You are in conflict when you must change speed and/or direction to avoid hitting someone. Conflicts occur at intersections where vehicles meet, at merges (such as turnpike on ramps) and where there are needed lane changes (such as the end of a lane, forcing a move to another lane of traffic). Other situations include slow moving or stalled traffic in a traffic lane, and accident scenes. Watch for other drivers who are in conflict because they are a hazard to you. When they react to this conflict, they may do something that will put them in conflict with you.
2.8.4 - Always Have a Plan
You should always be looking for hazards. Continue to learn to see hazards on the road. However, don't forget why you are looking for the hazards -- they may turn into emergencies. You look for the hazards to have time to plan a way out of any emergency. When you see a hazard, think about the emergencies that could develop and figure out what you would do. Always be prepared to act based on your plans. In this way, you will be a prepared, defensive driver who will improve your own safety as well as the safety of all road users.