To get a CDL or CLP, you must pass knowledge and skills tests. This manual will help you pass the tests, however, it is not a substitute for a truck driver training class or program. Formal training is the most reliable way to learn the many special skills required for safely driving a large commercial vehicle and becoming a professional driver in the trucking industry. Figure 1.1 helps you determine if you need a CDL.
![Does the vehicle or combination of vehicles have a manufacturer's weight rating (GVWR) OVER 26,001? No Yes Is the vehicle a combination vehicle towing a unit over 10,001 pounds GVWR? Yes You need a class A CDL. No Does the single vehicle have a GVWR over 26,001 pounds? Yes You need a class B CDL. No Is the vehicle designed to carry 16 or more people (including the driver)? Yes You need a class C CDL. No Does the vehicle require hazardous material placards or transport a select agent or toxin? Yes You need a class C CDL. No You DO NOT need a CDL. Figure 1.1]()
Gross combination weight rating (GCWR) means the value specified by the manufacturer of the power unit, if the value is displayed on the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) certification label; or the sum of the gross vehicle weight ratings (GVWRs) or the gross vehicle weights (GVSs) of the power unit and the towed unit(s), or any combination thereof, that produces the highest value.
The underlined and italicized text above is for use by roadside enforcement only for the purpose of determining whether the driver/vehicle is subject to CDL regulations. It is not used to determine whether a vehicle is representative for the purposes of skills testing.