## 5.1.15 - Parking Brake Controls
In newer vehicles with air brakes, you put on the parking brakes using a diamond-shaped, yellow, push- pull control knob. You pull the knob out to put the parking brakes (spring brakes) on, and push it in to release them. On older vehicles, the parking brakes may be controlled by a lever. Use the parking brakes whenever you park.
Caution. Never push the brake pedal down when the spring brakes are on. If you do, the brakes could be damaged by the combined forces of the springs and the air pressure. Many brake systems are designed so this will not happen. But not all systems are set up that way, and those that are may not always work. It is much better to develop the habit of not pushing the brake pedal down when the spring brakes are on.
Modulating Control Valves. In some vehicles a control handle on the dash board may be used to apply the spring brakes gradually. This is called a modulating valve. It is spring-loaded so you have a feel for the braking action. The more you move the control lever, the harder the spring brakes come on. They work this way so you can control the spring brakes if the service brakes fail. When parking a vehicle with a modulating control valve, move the lever as far as it will go and hold it in place with the locking device.
Dual Parking Control Valves. When main air pressure is lost, the spring brakes come on. Some vehicles, such as buses, have a separate air tank which can be used to release the spring brakes. This is so you can move the vehicle in an emergency. One of the valves is a push-pull type and is used to put on the spring brakes for parking. The other valve is spring loaded in the "out" position. When you push the control in, air from the separate air tank releases the spring brakes so you can move. When you release the button, the spring brakes come on again. There is only enough air in the separate tank to do this a few times. Therefore, plan carefully when moving. Otherwise, you may be stopped in a dangerous location when the separate air supply runs out. See Figure 5.3.
![TRACTOR PROTECTION VALVE & EMERGENCY TRAILER BRAKE OPERATION Tractor protection valve · Provides air supply . Closes automatically if air supply drops when driving The parking brakes, when applied, close the tractor protection valve and set the spring brakes at the same time. EMERGENCY SPRING BRAKE RELEASE PULL TO APPLY BRAKES RELEASE BULL TO APPLY PUSH HOLD TRACTOR PROTECTION PULL TO APPLY BLUE PUSH AND HOLD PARKING BRAKES PULL TO APPLY PUSH TO CHARGE TRAILER AIR SUPPLY NOT FOR PARKING PARKING BRAKES PULL TO APPLY PUSH TO RELEASE RED PUSH TO RELEASE YELLOW PUSH TO RELEASE Figure 5.3]()